Will Manchester City win the Premier League again
the final one that Manchester City are
going to win it again is it going to be
a big dominant display that they win it
by is it going to be by a big Point
difference or are we going to see them
pushed again like we did with Arsenal
this season no I think it's good well I
Will the Premier League be tighter next season
mean this season was unusual because I
think ultimately as I said with the
World Cup and the way things things
happen
I just think that's going to be even
tighter it's going to you know we're
gonna go back to the you know if not the
Liverpool Manchester City years it was
going to be tight because everybody's
gonna everybody's gonna get better
Manchester United are already showing
signs I think Chelsea are going to be
much better I think Arsenal to a degree
are going to be just as good if not a
little bit better so I think you're
going to see all those teams taking
point of points of each other uh just a
little bit I think it's going to be
um
more predictable in a way but you're
going to see four or five teams really
having to say at least early in the
season so I do think I do think that
it's going to be somewhat tighter thanks
Villa today mate what happened I was
just about to say I like Crystal Palace
good club good fan base loads of
talented players Mata e lisay have some
fun against the vill no problem all our
players are still in a mailbox partying
still San
Carlo locking in San Carlo having a wild
of a time yeah I they was it was on a
right Jolly up wouldn't they I mean fair
play fair play to Palace and put five
passes but vill didn't even bother
showing up did they that was like a
preseason friendly yeah first day back
now they didn't care they've got full
spot well done to them fair play uh all
to talk about though Manchester City
Champions Gams in a row mate ever in
doubt no I think everyone sort of re
everyone said Liverpool clubs last year
Arsenal yeah they're looking solid but I
think deep down we all knew didn't we
all the way through the season Man City
will find a way everyone kept saying the
same thing they always go on a run we
theyve done again
Arsenal slipped up against Villa you
know at home when it was in their hands
Man City would never have lost that game
if it was in their hands you like that
that mentality that experience like
Pep's just going to keep doing it as
long as he's in the Premier League with
Manchester City they will win the
Premier League so he's got a year left
on his contract I better hope he doesn't
sign a new contract because it's like
artetta must be
thinking what the hell man what's going
on 89 points it's hard work like we can
ceeded the least goals like come on give
us a break you I mean Jamie you must be
thinking
like come on what can I buy please give
me some money let me go and get Ivan
Tony or ISAC we need someone else up
there to help with havit yeah I mean
unbelievable fair play to him I want to
hear from Arsenal fans you know philen
six Premier Leagues I 23 get 10 we've
got the title list have 10 it's that
rious Phil foden six Premier League
titles Edison six titles stones Stones
six Scott Carson he's got four Premier
League titles where's he going to put
them all for when he retires he could
end up be like 15 lead titles mate it's
actually rid 10 to 15 imagine having
trophy cabinet at home yeah it's I mean
unb their team is just outrageous but
fair play to them they come good at the
end of the season like they always do
that's what Champions do and they come
good Arsenal you know they fell over the
line Aston Villa the draw against Fulham
they look back and they'll kick
themselves West Ham lost West Ham West
Ham did should have they have gone for
it when they went to the EAD when they
was playing well could have beat them
that day injuries to manity that game as
well they had their chance but they
they've come up short and uh they've won
the same amount as Tottenham uh Spurs
get fifth though um you know what gabs
look at it today and you know you go
back and we had that Banner of wearing
Man City shirt last week and it's just a
shame that that game against Manchester
city was last week because if that
happened in December or something and it
was and it wasn't the whole arsenal
thing around it Spurs could have really
G after Man City but there was just that
feeling wasn't there in a game that they
were like oh we don't want Arsenal to
win a league and we ended up losing it I
think man city was too strong any I I
get it mate like like I feel like yes
I've been like critical of Spurs fans
for being like that but if I'm in your
the same situation with burnam City I'm
going to be the same as you was I'm
going to be happy to lose do you know
what I mean so I understand it now you
can all look at the clips of Arsenal
players in tears and the Arsenal fans
walking at the stadium heads down and
you can have a nice summer knowing you
want the same amount of trophies as
Arsenal I get it mate understand it on
am on D via the talk sport app and on
your smart speaker talk sport
my feeling today we're going to win the
Premier League today if you ask me we're
going to win the Premier League if you
play in the level so Liverpool and and
Tottenham we are going to win it again
the people don't believe it already for
three draws but uh yeah we're going to
do it again knowing that is not
easy because no one no team have done it
yet
so so that's why the difficulty is there
so it was last season it was this season
but if you ask me today what you feeling
we wanting to do it
again three winless games Ryan Chelsea
Liverpool and Spurs what patterns have
we seen across those three games that
Manchester City have drawn that are
coming back up and
reoccurring yeah to me the the the
overarching pattern is that they kind of
got unlucky um in Trent Alexander Arnold
hits a fantastic shot against City in a
game that was mostly one-sided in my
opinion and then uh there was some good
finishing for Tottenham who didn't
threaten much throughout the game but I
think Beyond like City dominating games
and then just not converting their
chances and their opponents converting
theirs which is a really boring uh way
of analyzing the sport so I'm not going
to do that I think one thing that I've
noticed with city is that they do often
feel like they take their foot off the
gas when they have a lead um and they're
dominating they don't they don't tend to
go up by two goals or they don't as much
as they as I remember them doing in the
past um in the Liverpool game for
example you know they dominate they take
the lead and then they're just unable to
kill them off in the Tottenham game they
go behind tie the game Take the Lead
then there's a long period of them not
creating anything then Tottenham
eventually ties it then they suddenly
create a ton of chances score again and
then they basically don't take another
shot for the rest of the game and then
Tottenham ties it so there is like a you
know the the success of the team last
year was with the team becoming a little
more conservative not pressing is high
not at risk of getting um exploited by
counterattacks in behind because it
seems like pep realized that's the only
way his teams could ever lose so he
wanted to try to find a way to eliminate
that but in response to that it it
requires a kind of more slower paced
conservative Style with the ball and I
think at times it leads to kind of these
Meek periods of them not creating
anything against teams that they were
fine creating chances against and then
suddenly you know you can't control
soccer perfectly and these other teams
have talented players so then they kind
of hit you in mouth and then suddenly
it's tied all right so yanish I want to
get to you with erling Highland again
because we were talking about the big
chances he missed and obviously the
goals that he does score last week and I
feel that you know this is something
that we always put on Dar Nunes at
Liverpool it's talked about a lot but I
do want to bring back up the Highland
point because we've got some stats in
here it's 43 big chances missed in the
Premier League 28 last year 15 so far
this year leading the rankings in both
of those instances just to put it into
context har Kane had 30 big Miss chances
in his final two season at Spurs is this
an issue is it more of an issue than
City's
defense no no but I mean it's always
been an issue with me with Hollen I told
you many times he's a great goal scorer
in general but he's not a great player
and that's that's just that and I'll
never leave that because he's always
going to be on on on great uh teams but
you know I mean I don't want to compare
him to Messi but you know ronal if you
look at Power you on great teams then if
you're not a great player
you can you can be a great goal scorer
and do very little after that right I
mean he's Miss missed a lot of chances
maybe one day he's going to be scoring
every other one right but you know hry
Kane's doing this all the time right and
as I told you before I'd rather have
harri kanane than him on that team
because he he has that sophistication
there's more to his game he's young he
may learn and in the end everybody's
going to have the last laugh at me but
it's not for me to put him down it's
just that it continues every week even
though we say it we see how many chances
he's got because that like game against
Spurs if if he puts away that chance and
by the way I I do agree with Ryan as
well I mean that game against Spurs if
he scores that goal and then you have
dku who needed to score I know it look
close you know was a crossbar and a post
and you know City doesn't they used to
finish games in the first half very
similar game to Liverpool and they
didn't so now they paid the price a
little bit because their defense is
unsettled and that's clear to see that
pep guardiola has got a fix that they've
conceded 10 goals recently in all
competitions they have con conceded 16
usually Manchester City when they're
winning they're the best defense or
second best by a goal you know in the
olden days with Liverpool whatever it
might have been right now it's not
settled nobody's playing well in the
back and we don't know what the best
formation is in in terms of that so
that's their issue but because they have
so much talent they'll figure it out
Holland next game probably scores a
hattick it's you know it's going to be
inconsequential to to what I say he's
going to continue to score goals he's
going to be the leading scorer I'm sure
and that's not going to change but no
surprise to me seeing the statistics
right because with him everything is
about power I don't think he's a
sophisticated finisher just like d Nunes
by the way right uh so if you have to
compare somebody I mean look at Ronaldo
right I mean I don't know what his stats
we but pretty similar where he relied a
little bit more on his spce and strength
but there was that extra sophistication
so from that standpoint if somebody
pushed me to say well how great is he
you know messy forget about it that's
totally different uh level but in terms
of him and Cristiano even though he's
young I don't think he ever comes even
close to that not not even I mean I
don't even remember how many Ronaldo
scored but he can be scoring two two a
game and I I'll still won't put him even
near Cristiano Ronaldo okay so let me
get to you on Liverpool yanish because I
know we're uh losing you after Premier
League Express today obviously that was
an epic game against full of brilliant
goals as well from Liverpool you were
talking about team spirit earlier and it
just feels as though there's so much of
around Liverpool at the moment Trent
leadership being talked about klopp
saying you know this is one of the best
games in fact this was the latest
Liverpool that ever fallen behind in a
Premier League match that they went on
to win what are their title chances are
they as strong as arsenals in Challenger
terms well I mean we should get to that
because pep conveniently in that thing
didn't mention the game against Arsenal
did he you if we play like against
Liverpool if we I mean Manchester City
you know because we got to give credit
to Arsenal because Arsenal at this
moment for me are the best team in the
premier
by the way not just because they're top
but uh you were asking me Liverpool uh
still you know they're still looking for
the identity I don't know if it's the
one that they used to have or the one
that they trying to create so uh I think
the position in the table is a little
bit better than the project overall look
I'll tell you I like Liverpool much
better when they were winning the league
or they were in that you know massive
fight year in and year out one point
different with manchest City when an
nfield you know they jumped on teams and
was over in the first 15 minute rather
than the team that shows character which
is by the way important and continues to
come back after after going behind and
and you know at times like even this
game you kind of say to yourself well
that's bit lucky because it was I mean
great goals in the end but my goodness
if you keep doing this it's not going to
look good so uh they're still building I
think you know if if menest City
continue to give chances to everybody
else Liverpool has the ability to do
that although I worry about mosala
leaving for African cou of Nations uh
that's obvious why um um but you know
outright I I think they still need the
rest of the season and next year you
know maybe then we can say you know
Liverpool are absolutely back so not
quite yet okay let's talk about Ryan's
latest piece it'll be live today on
Arsenal lose to Villa and our Manchester
City in very familiar territory we're
taking many of your calls mark thank you
for your message this morning no doubt
my mind Arsenal bottled it last year but
to say they're bottling it again's a bit
harsh I'm a villa fan we did a job on
them in the second half yesterday saying
they bottled it does a slight discredit
to the Villa thank you so much great
show uh by far on talk sport mark thank
you very much indeed for that Rick's a
big Liverpool fan Ricky what's going on
with your Club good morning
morning morning s morning
Martin always thank you for Liverpool
really don't know what's gone wrong I
just feel like yesterday in the first
half the players look so laggy and tired
and it just felt like they just had no
energy but it's no excuse at the end of
the day we're taking 20 plus shots in a
game and we're not scoring a goal I mean
um if you look at the stats for Darwin
Nunes this season all of his goals have
come against team team outside the big
six um the only team that he scored uh
which probably were Europe this season
with Newcastle they were in the
Champions League he scored two goals
against them everybody else has been
against like Burnley Luton like all your
small clubs you know what I mean he's
not turned up in the big games Mo Salah
is not looking the same since he's come
back from the injury uh but I just felt
like this week for Liverpool that like
there's not a player that would probably
say that performed really well
uh maybe Andy Robertson had a great game
yesterday but at the same time you can't
just keep relying on one and two players
like we banked on um sure sure coming on
and having a great game but at the same
time like you've got to give these
players time to get back into the team
but and Ricky you want know the Premier
League got familiar look to it with City
at the top to me for me the way I I
watched the Arsenal game after that and
the way Aston Villa have played I don't
I don't see Liverpool getting anything
against Aston Villa especially at home
as well with being at home like their
form at home is unbelievable this season
right un is doing a cracking job okay
Ricky listen thank you many good points
here we're going to try and crack on get
as many of you on as we can Dave's a big
Arsenal fan Dave good morning what's
your take after the weekend we've just
witnessed uh good morning boys um good
morning Martin it's a pleasure to uh to
have you speaking I was big big fan of
yours back in the
day um it's I I think it's gone I think
it was a tall order anyway uh with the
Arsenal because of it's because of the
fixtures if you look at how our
remaining fixtures we got to go to Old
Trafford uh we got the north London
derby um so it was a tall order anyway
and I think I think yesterday was the
final now I think we needed three points
there really to get especially after
Liverpool losing it would have just
given us that buffer but getting back to
the actual game itself and I don't
understand it perhaps Martin can answer
the question is why do managers seem to
CH Tinker with with formulas that were
working he put havitz back into the
Midfield dropped georgino havs went back
to where he was at the start of the
season um sackers sackers looking tired
um he play
cenko who's vulnerable um and when he's
got Tommy ASU on the bench and then he
brings off Martin odard and brings off
hazus and it it it just it it just all
looks it just disjointed and I don't
understand why managers do it I really
don't that's a good point I mean does
the pressure get to the managers as well
then Martin well I've been managing some
time and and I made some decisions that
I thought don't know why I did that so
um I can't kind of kind of feel that do
you think that it might have something
to do with um the aftermath of the game
against Bayern Munich maybe you know
sometimes that actually the the the the
best judge is someone there who's been
working with the player obviously Etta
and he sees he sees the reaction of the
players afterwards he sees maybe bit of
tiredness setting in perhaps maybe he
wanted Jesus to to start the game this
particular time um it's an interesting
one and you do make a a couple of really
good points I'm not sure why all those
the the changes were all made at that
stage if they come off on the on the day
you think well that that's absolutely
right you're sometimes you're damned if
you do and damned if you don't oh the
only thing I will say in um in our AR's
uh defense is it's the first loss since
in since um start of January and um
don't give up yet yeah Dave don't give
up yet but you say you're in the point
of it are you no no I'm I can't I'm not
really thrown in the toil and I've been
proud of the boys I mean they've given
us some brilliant teams brilliant times
this season and and they'll continue to
do so and um areta still you got to
remember art is still learning his trade
he's still a relatively young manager
the club and um yeah and pet so he's
still learning his trade and mistakes
are going to happen it's just it's just
gut-wrenching really because now we're
going to get labeled again and you're
going to get all the certain parts of
the media and all the idiots you know
calling us bottlers this ain't a
bottling season this this is another
season where we could just fall short uh
any anyone else anyone else in the title
race and we're winning that League simp
as that were you were you were you there
at against uh against Bayern Munich no
couldn't get a ticket for Bayern Munich
unfortunately but I I was there
yesterday and I've been there most of
the games Martin and um it's been it's
been fantastic it has yeah um it's it's
been absolutely amazing and it will
continue to do so I was gonna say DAV
it's not over yet mate surely it I'd
like to say it's not I'd like to I
really would like to say it's not but as
I said it was going to be an uphill
struggle anyway because of the fixtures
if you look at man City's fixures and
look at ours it was always going to be
tight and anyway um and now it's just
even more tighter so okay Dave listen
thanks for the call many good points
keep the faith uh so many of you trying
to get through we'll take some more
calls the other side at 10:30 Simon I
can see you're plotting the pictures
there are you you having a look at who's
going to play who and one why I looking
at it yeah and seeing who's doing what
when and how how many points they can't
really got how many points Arsenal got
last year what won the leagues the year
before and the year before that just
trying to see direction of travel of
this league you can't I mean again
Arsenal with Wolves Chelsea Spurs
Bournemouth United and Everton you know
you look at the fixtures and said it
last week to be fair he said it about
Celtic and Rangers didn't he and look at
the week that Rangers have just had yes
you know and the ultimate outcomes of
that result of that week you can't write
into but when you're looking at Brighton
Forest wolves Everton Spurs and West Ham
I'm not sure that City will be their
knees will be knocking about any of
those
fixtures Jim White and Simon Jordan
Monday to Friday mornings from 10: on
a.m. on da via the talk sport app and on
your smart speaker talk sport
Manchester City: Pep Guardiola says his side will win fourth straight Premier League title
•	Published
5 December 2023
Share
 
00:33
Media caption,
Man City will win the Premier League title - Guardiola
Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola says his side are going to win a record fourth consecutive Premier League title this season.
City have slipped to third, three points off leaders Arsenal, after draws with Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham.
Guardiola side have conceded eight goals in those games and thrown away leads in each, but are still favourites with the bookmakers for the title.
"My feeling today is we're going to win the Premier League," said Guardiola.
"If we play at the levels that we showed against Liverpool and Tottenham, we're going to win it again.
"People don't believe it already after three draws but we feel we're going to do it again, knowing that it is not easy because no team has done it yet [won four in a row].
"The difficulty is there and was last season but, if you ask me today what I'm feeling, we're going to do it again."
•	Latest Manchester City news, analysis and fan views
•	Get Man City news notifications
City matched Manchester United's record of three consecutive Premier League titles when they won the Treble last season.
At one stage they were eight points behind Arsenal last season, but won the league by five points.
The previous season saw City edge Liverpool out by a point, coming from 2-0 down against Aston Villa on the final day to win the league by a single point.
They finished 12 points clear of Manchester United the season before.
After the 3-3 draw against Tottenham on Sunday, Sky Sports pundit Gary Neville said: "What Guardiola won't like is the complacency, defensive lapses and giving up points again to Tottenham."
Former Manchester City defender Micah Richards added that "something isn't right" with City at the moment.
"I don't have anything to say about the pundits," said Guardiola.
"Maybe I'm wrong but I don't think it's about complacency. I know the players, I know how they run. How we behave is extraordinary.
"He knows how difficult it is otherwise Gary Neville would've won four Premier Leagues in the best period of Manchester United. But he didn't do it.
"I see my team, how they fight, how they press, how they continue until the end and how upset they are after we concede.
"Maybe, maybe I'm wrong and they are seeing everything that I'm not able to see, but I don't have that feeling.
"Jamie Carragher didn't win one [league title]. Micah Richards didn't win four Premier Leagues in a row. Never, ever."
'We never use these situations'

Media caption,
MOTD2 Analysis: How did Manchester City's 'huge' referee error happen?
Guardiola side were incensed in the closing stages against Tottenham on Sunday when referee Simon Hooper blew for a free-kick after initially playing advantage for a foul on Erling Haaland.
Haaland got back to his feet and clipped the ball over the top, releasing Jack Grealish, but Hooper brought play back for the foul.
However, Guardiola does not think his players need that incident to fuel their fight for the rest of the season.
"We never use these kind of situations. Today the motivation is to try and do better," he said.
"Sometimes decisions help you, sometimes they don't. I learn that if you want to win something you have to do it much, much better than the opponents."
City have been charged with failing to control their players by the Football Association (FA) after their players surrounded Hooper following the incident.
Haaland went on to criticise Hooper in a social media post, but the Norwegian is not facing any individual action from the FA.
Guardiola said his side have "behaved incredibly this season" and pointed to comments by his players that highlighted they needed to do better as a group on the pitch.
We will win it again’: Pep Guardiola confident of another title
This article is more than 1 year old
•	Manchester City manager rejects complacency claim
•	Champions travel to face Aston Villa on Wednesday
Will Unwin
Tue 5 Dec 2023 23.51 CET
Share
Pep Guardiola believes Manchester City are not experiencing complacency and will win the Premier League this season if they maintain their current level of performance despite drawing their past three games.
City travel on Wednesday night to Aston Villa, who have won 13 in a row at home, with the champions in search of a first win in four league games after surrendering leads against Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham. After being held by Spurs, Gary Neville claimed City were complacent after winning three Premier League titles in a row.

 
Manchester City are vulnerable in ways they haven’t been for years
Read more

“I don’t have anything to say about the pundits, honestly,” Guardiola said. “Maybe I’m wrong but I don’t think it’s about complacency. I know the players, I know how they run. How we behave is extraordinary. I have a feeling that if we maintain that level we’ll win the Premier League. We will win it again.
“He knows how difficult it is, otherwise Gary Neville would’ve won four Premier Leagues in the best period of Manchester United. But he didn’t do it, you know? I see my team, how they fight, how they press, how they continue until the end and how upset they are after we concede. So I don’t have that feeling. Maybe, maybe I’m wrong and they [pundits] are seeing everything that I’m not able to see. But I don’t have that feeling.”
City players were upset that the referee Simon Hooper stopped play when Jack Grealish was through on goal in the final moments of the 3-3 draw against Tottenham on Sunday. It has led to the club being charged for failing to control their players. “We behaved incredibly this season,” Guardiola said. “How we behaved in our not good results or decisions, even after the game the comments from my players accepting we can do better, is what I want to see from my team and my club.”
Guardiola said he did not think his team require the perceived injustice to inspire them. “We never use these kind of situations. Today the motivation is to try and do better. Sometimes decisions help you, sometimes they don’t. I learn that if you want to win something you have to do it much, much better than the opponents.”
Although Guardiola did rule out a decade of domination, he said: “I’m pretty sure we are not going win the next decade, 10 Premier Leagues in a row. I’m optimistic but not an idiot.”
Grealish and Rodri are suspended for the Villa game, where the hosts could leapfrog City with a win. When Rodri missed three matches earlier in the season after his sending-off against Nottingham Forest, City lost all three. “We won’t deny how important he is but if he is not there because he is suspended like Jack we will find the best solution to compete against Aston Villa,” Guardiola said.
5 reasons why Manchester City will win the 2021/22 Premier League
16 Mar   /  autty
Manchester City are still very much in the driving seat to win the Premier League title this season. The Citizens recently drew to Crystal Palace, leaving Liverpool with the chance to reduce the gap to the top of the table to just 1 point. However, Pep Guardiola and co. remain favorites to retain their crown.
 
Liverpool are fierce competitors for the Premier League title and have done well over the last few weeks to chase down the runaway champions. While Manchester City have stumbled twice on the road, the Reds have also enjoyed their fair share of narrow victories.
Regardless, the blue half of Manchester still holds the grit and willpower to take things over the line and win their 6th title in the Premier League era. On that note, let's take a look at 5 reasons why Manchester City will win the Premier League title this season.
#5 Rare title slip-ups
 
The Etihad outfit have won three league titles in the last four years, thereby showcasing their supremacy in the top-flight. In the one year they failed to win it, Liverpool broke several records to lift their first title in 30 years.
However, it is worth noting that Guardiola men rarely experience title slip-ups. Although several clubs in the league stumble at some point in the season, the Citizens often never let anybody overtake them.
They managed to overtake Liverpool in the 2018/19 season after trailing by seven points and never let them win it back. Their title victories in 2018 and 2021 were also by a comfortable margin because they left little room for error.
While they have slipped up slightly in the past month, they are unlikely to let Liverpool get ahead of them before the end of the campaign.
#4 Sound defensive setup
 
The reigning league champions have been the best defensive side in England in the current campaign. Conceding 18 goals in 29 games has been a near-brilliant job by the Manchester City defense. To put this into context, Chelsea and Liverpool have played a game lesser than them but have still conceded more goals this season.
Although Guardiola has some of the best defenders in the world, Ederson deserves his fair share of praise. His brilliance is testified to by his 16 clean sheets in 28 appearances.
To add to that, they have enough depth in their centre-back and full-back options to produce quality defensive performances week after week. In fact, they have conceded more than one goal on only two occasions this season. The midfield and the frontline also run their socks off till the end to ensure a clean sheet for the team.
Although Ruben Dias is currently on the sidelines, Aymeric Laporte and John Stones are more than competent to bring home another league title.
#3 Relatively easy fixture list
 
One of the key advantages from hereon for Manchester City is their fixture list. While Liverpool are yet to face Manchester United, Arsenal, and Tottenham, the Citizens do not share the same fate.
The 5-time Premier League champions have already faced the likes of Chelsea and the aforementioned teams. Their only tough fixtures are the showdown against Liverpool at the Etihad and an away trip to West Ham United.
Apart from that, it is relatively easy sailing for them, as five out of their last nine games are against teams in the bottom half of the table. It is worth noting that the Citizens often batter such sides, let alone leaving any room for a slip-up.
So as far as the fixture list goes, Manchester City will not be worried about facing a challenging period towards the end of the campaign.
#2 They do not rely on an a single goal-scorer
 
Almost every single team in the Premier League relies on one of their main stars to supply their goals. Title competitors Liverpool have Mohamed Salah to thank this season as his 20 goals have played an integral role in keeping them in the race.
However, Guardiola team do not operate like this and have various avenues of scoring goals. From Kevin de Bruyne to Phil Foden to Riyad Mahrez, every midfielder and attacker at Manchester City has multiple goals to his name this season.
Bernardo Silva, Ilkay Gundogan, Mahrez, de Bruyne, Foden, and Sterling have five or more goals in the league this season. The defense has also contributed to eight goals in this term.
For a team without a traditional centre-forward, the Citizens have done quite a sensational job of scoring relentlessly. This non-reliance on one striker could be the key to their league victory since goals are guaranteed from nearly every player that is put on the pitch.
On the other hand, Liverpool's title charge could get completely derailed if Salah gets injured anytime between now and the end of the campaign, despite the brilliance of their other attackers.
#1 Hold the ability to go on winning runs
 
One of the main reasons for Manchester City finding success in the Premier League under Pep Guardiola is their unerring ability to go on a winning streak.
In the 2017/18 campaign, they went on an 18-game winning run, which led to them lifting the title by the largest margin ever. This was followed by their sensational streak in the 2018/19 season as they won 15 consecutive games and defeated Liverpool by a point.
They also went on a 12-game winning streak this season, which was broken by Southampton in January. They hold all the tools in their hands to go on a winning run for the rest of the season to seal the league title again.
Few will bet against Manchester City securing another Premier League title this time around, with the blue half of Manchester waiting to celebrate another successful campaign for their club.
ohn Terry now shares whether he thinks Manchester City will win the Premier League title this season
Srinivas Sadhanand
Wed 24 April 2024 17:15, UK
John Terry has predicted whether Manchester City will win the Premier League title this season.
Alongside City, Terry also revealed where he thinks Arsenal and Liverpool will finish among the top three.
Previously, the Chelsea legend has showcased his admiration for the Sky Blues, admitting in January that due to the club’s dominant cycle, it will be difficult to catch up to them while describing them as an “incredible team.”
In January, John Terry also lauded Manchester City for how they do background checks on the players they sign.
Terry clearly seems to admire City as a club as well as a team.
However, the ongoing Premier League title race is one of the closest we have had in years, with perhaps Pep Guardiola men not looking like guaranteed favourites to get over the line.
right the Champions League return
tonight doesn't it and defending
Champions Manchester City in action in
the last 16 first leg tie Copenhagen and
Michael and I can speak live to former
city Defender Danny Mills good to see
you Danny very good morning just 10 wins
in a row now for City isn't it is this
the stage of the season I mean where
they really come into their
own yeah I think we've seen it before
haven't we you know Sir Alex Ferguson
always used to talk about you get to
this stage February March stage of the
season and you need to be in the running
uh and then it's about what you do from
here on in City are always there or
thereabouts we've seen them go on
incredible runs before you know hardly
dropping any points from from this sort
of stage till the end of the season you
know that incredible season was it 14 15
in a row where they just Pi Liverpool to
the title they may well have to do that
again this season but they are in
incredible form when it comes to
business end they they've been there
seen it and done it before Danny earling
Holland back on the score sheet but Pep
Guardiola has questioned his body
language and it says it could improve
when he's not scoring what did you make
of
that yeah it must be awful when you go
four games without scoring um it's
terrible isn't it and then and then you
pop up with two uh to to win the game I
mean it's a he's so good he's so
powerful his movement his finishing
everything about him is so good you know
there will always I think people say can
he do more because he has so few touches
in the
game but he's just a he's just a
constant thorn in the opposition side
he's a constant threat he's a constant
problem players double up on him at
times we saw that I think against
brenford you know when two players are
marking him and at least Phil foden
spare you know to to get his goals if
erling Harland keeps scoring goals
Manchester City keep winning I think
Pep's nitpicking um just slightly in
that one it's so big though you notice
it don't you that that's the problem the
incredible sulk The Incredible Hulk he's
one of the two he can be both together
who cares he's scoring goals and he's
doing it with Kevin De bruyer back fully
fit as well just how important to have
have these two fit
together de Bryer is without doubt one
of if not the me best midfielder you
know in the world his range of passing
is exceptional his vision everything
about him is absolutely you know Sublime
to have him back at at this stage of the
Season you know he comes back harand
comes back from a a lesser injury if you
like they are if they stay fit between
now and the end of the season why can't
City go on and do the the double treble
yeah de bruyne's been involved in 23 of
his last 23 23 goals his last 23
appearances for Manchester
City if the if harand and de bruy stay
fit is is it their
title I think it's theirs to lose uh
I've said them from the very very
beginning of the season if you finish
above Manchester City you win the league
you know simple as that it will be very
very difficult to do that I know
obviously City are in what second place
um at the moment games in hand Champions
League games to come big games in that
as well you know where is their focus
going to be I think as usually it will
be on all every single competition that
they're in you know they've been in this
situation before no one has ever won the
Premier League four times in a row no
one's ever done uh you know the the
double treble Guardiola will push his
teams to be better and better and better
and keep winning every single game so
they have strength in depth when you
look at the player Harland de bruyne
rodri they are the key players for for
Manchester City if you were going to
lose any of those for for a period of
you know of more than you know five or
six games there might just be a little
bit bit of light for for everybody
else I mean one thing you have said all
season anyone who finishes above City
wins the league they are two points
behind Lee leaders Liverpool they do
however have a game in hand don't they
have you seen anything this weekend that
makes you change your mind or city I
mean absolutely still the favorites
where do Liverpool come into this now
then Liverpool have just got to keep
winning football matches I think we all
know that Liverpool have immense
Firepower have goals from lots of
different positions they'll have Mo
Salah to come back you know sooner
rather than later um we expect Liverpool
are going to win games they're going to
score goals simple as that obviously
they got to play each other um again
Manchester City they have slightly more
focus in some of the big Champions
League games maybe um maybe not so it's
going to be really interesting to to see
how they deal with that yet again but
liver all Liverpool can do is win as
many games as they possibly can City
unfortunately sometimes are so
relentless that they just win more than
you and there's nothing you can do about
that so we've seen Copenhagen beat
Manchester United in the group
stage I'm sure City won't be taking it
lightly but it's a good draw isn't it
for The Knockout stages oh definitely um
you know Manchester City there's
probably only two or three teams that
Manchester City look at and think they
will give us a real good game over two
legs you know two-legged football now
Manchester City are superb even if they
have a a blip for half an hour you
expect them to come good you know in in
the rest you know of that game uh and
then in the following game as well so
they've done it now you know they've got
across that line they they've been there
before they know what it takes to win
and I think what you're starting to see
now with with Manchester City and I go
back to you know the Manchester United
when I played against that United
they're patient they wait they
understand that they're not always going
to score you know two or three goals in
in the first half of a game you look at
what happened against Everton they had
to be very very patient you know Everton
were resilient they were dogged they
worked hard they made it very very
difficult but eventually that quality
that City have they break teams down and
and over two legs I don't think City
will will have too much of a problem I
mean as We Know city of course
defending champions in this competition
you said you don't think they're going
to have much of a problem are they
absolute still
favorites or who are their main
challenges Real Madrid will be there or
thereabouts uh I think we know that
Bayern Munich again have exceptionally
talented team um and talented players
they could challenge as well there's
always a surprise package uh maybe a
team that gets to the semi-final that
you maybe don't expect um you know comes
from slightly left field but I think you
know City for strength in depth quality
the amount of goals that they score
defensively very very sound strong in
every single position of the pitch and
have the experience of now winning it
they surely they have to be
favorites what about another potential
treble I mean pep Keen to play down
their chances and of course he would be
doing that but looten away in the cup
that won't be easy of course but the
league we've just talked about Champions
League we've talked about it can happen
Danny can't it of course it can you know
what what are they looking at now um You
probably got to win five games uh to win
the Champions League very very durable I
know it's difficult because they're very
very difficult teams and over in
two-legged football I think you'd always
fancy Manchester City FA Cup is maybe
slightly trickier uh simply
because it's a one-off if you have a bad
half you can be out of the game you get
a two or three bad decisions that go
against you you can be out of the game
and and no real fault of your own the
opposition goalkeeper can have an
absolute worldly so
I it's difficult um but they've been
there they've done it before why not you
know Guardiola is a he just wants trophy
after the trophy doesn't he you know
he's just hoarding all these trophies he
just wants to keep winning keep winning
keep winning they will be there or about
there there or thereabouts um without a
shadow of a doubt if if they don't win
two trophies this season I think I would
be
surprised they've got Chelsea next I
mean after failing to register a shot on
Target in the first half now we've been
chatting about it all morning of course
they turned things around to to beat
Crystal Palace what do you put the
contrast between those two halves of
football down to Danny it was like
watching two different
teams I think sometimes it just comes
down to thring caution to the wind uh
Chelsea haven't performed well this
season you know you know we we
can't over OV exaggerate how poor
they've been but Manchester City didn't
have a shot on target for what 70
minutes against Everton but they went on
to win the game and it's you know it's
business as usual Chelsea haven't been
doing business as usual um this season
sometimes you just have to sort of throw
caution to the wind a little bit is
sometimes if you're 2N or 3-0 down and
suddenly you see a team with a
Resurgence and start to play really well
cuz all of a sudden there's nothing to
lose maybe that was a little bit like
last night you know that they're playing
the game Thinking well look we're not
playing well oh let's just go for it
let's just see what happens because if
we keep doing this we're not going to
win the game the The Press the media
going to be all over us so let's just go
out there and do something a little bit
different you know play with a bit more
freedom bit more confidence bit more
expression bit more work rate and
sometimes it can be you know just a
simple as a very very slight change in
attitude but just looking here Danny I
think Haley and I have earned ourselves
an England cap each T that well take
take your pick you can have one
each sorry I sorry sorry he let's get
back to it um pet he said last night um
Chelsea should be title challenges in
two seasons time I mean you can
understand why in terms of the
youngsters but can you see that
happening I thought they'd be a lot
better this season under poino than what
they were you know spent an awful lot of
money expected poino to make them better
than they were uh for whatever reason it
hasn't happened you know they they their
buying policy has been scattergun I
would say at best you know that's been a
really sort of interesting way of buying
so many young
players again you go back to Manchester
United you know when Alan Hansen's in
you win nothing with kids and obviously
had the class of 92 come through but
within that Squad within that team were
very experienced senior play players
apart from Thiago Silva Chelsea don't
really have that you have to have a
blend you've got to have the exuberance
of Youth you've got to have the talent
and the ability and everything that goes
with that but you need experience um you
know you look at what Manchester City
have got you know with within their
ranks senior players that have been
around for a long time that you know are
doing it week in week out that are being
pushed by the younger players to be
better um but also the younger players
are learning from them Chelsea just
don't have the right blend if they can
get that blend right and that's going to
cost them obviously more money they're
going to have to spend more I would
expect them to be much much better
challenging I still think they got to
get back in the top four first and
foremost you know challenging for the
title is going to be very very
difficult well we shall wait and see but
for now thank you very much indeed
Manchester City Win a Record Fourth Straight Title – Are They the Greatest English Side Ever?
Pep Guardiola incredible team have become the first in English football history to win four top-flight titles in a row. So, does that make them the best English side of all time?
________________________________________
Another year, another Manchester City title.
Sunday’s 3-1 win over West Ham at the Etihad made it six titles in seven years for Pep Guardiola, and a record-breaking four in a row. They are the first side in English football history to win four consecutive top-flight titles.
It’s therefore natural to ask, is this version of Manchester City the greatest team this country has ever seen?
Not only have they done what no team has ever managed before, they have also seen off two of the best also-rans in the Premier League era – a 92-point Liverpool in 2021-22 and this season’s exceptional Arsenal. Throw in last season’s treble and the possibility that next weekend they’ll become the first team in English football history to win back-to-back doubles, and you quickly see that a decent case can be made for them being England’s greatest-ever team.
Of course, none of this would be possible without the riches City are lucky to have. There is also the hardly insignificant matter of 115 charges for alleged breaches of the Premier League’s financial rules hanging over them, which are impossible to ignore, though City strongly deny them. The outcome of their hearing – whenever that happens – will understandably alter the narrative around this discussion. Regardless of its outcome, though, there is no denying that City have spent their way to the top.
But that fact doesn’t change the undeniable truth they have become a sensational football team. With a date for the hearing yet to be set, the discussion here is focused solely on City’s footballing achievements.
What they have managed, with four successive titles and six in the last seven seasons, is completely unprecedented in this country. Manchester United twice won three in a row earlier in the Premier League era (1998-2001 and 2006-2009), while Liverpool (1981-1984), Arsenal (1932-35) and Huddersfield Town (1923-1926) all managed three in a row in the old First Division, but could not manage a fourth.
For a team to win the title these days, they have to be a more complete unit than when those other teams managed three in a row. There is more at stake and clubs have more staff to cater for all the players’ needs when it comes to recovery, sleep, nutrition, and much, much more. It therefore takes more to win the title, but that doesn’t take away from the fact that it has clearly always been very, very difficult to dominate for four years on the trot.
And City have dominated to an extent that was barely imaginable before they and Guardiola came along.
Over the last four seasons, City have amassed 359 points – 49 more than anyone else. They have averaged 2.4 points per game, winning 73.7% of their Premier League matches and losing just 11.2%. They have scored 372 goals – 49 more than anyone else – at an average of 2.4 per game. They have conceded 125, which is 31 fewer than any other ever-present team, but also fewer than Nottingham Forest (135), Bournemouth (138) and Sheffield United (167), each of whom have been in the top flight for only two of those four campaigns.

Go back another year to 2019-20 and you’ll find the only season in the last seven that anyone managed to beat City to the title (Liverpool). Even that year, City scored 102 goals – the third-highest total by any team in a Premier League season. A couple of years earlier, City became the first team to amass 100 points in a season. They remain the only team to do so.
Over the last four seasons, City have developed as a team, too. The signing of Erling Haaland in the summer of 2022 was probably the most significant moment in that period, because the Norwegian’s arrival meant Guardiola finally had a traditional number nine that he had chosen, having spent years never really fully trusting Sergio Agüero and rotating his midfielders in a false nine position.
The logical conclusion for many was that by adding a goalscoring machine like Haaland, City, who at that point had won four of the last five Premier League titles, would become completely unstoppable.
It has turned out that way, but it hasn’t been quite as straightforward as many assumed it would be.
What hadn’t been considered fully was what City would lose by adding Haaland.
Haaland is an exceptional finisher, but he is not a technician like Kevin De Bruyne, Phil Foden, Bernardo Silva, Jack Grealish, Gabriel Jesus, Riyad Mahrez or Raheem Sterling, who occupied the attacking positions in 2021-22, when City collected 93 points on the way to winning the league. By bringing Haaland in, City would also lose one of those players from their starting XI.
It took some getting used to. Although Haaland scored fairly consistently over the course of his first campaign in England – going on to break the Premier League record for goals in a season – there were still some teething issues. They were less fluent in possession and stuttered midway through the campaign. Over the course of the entire season, they had 113 fewer shots than they had managed in the previous campaign.
But they clicked in the new year and found their groove with Haaland up top. From late February on, they won 12 straight league games to storm to the title, and they carried that form into both the Champions League and FA Cup. In June, City wrapped up a historic treble – only the second team in English football history to achieve that feat after Manchester United in 1998-99.
History shows it is difficult to go again after winning the league, but City have done just that for a fourth straight season. This year, they have done exceptionally to keep pace with Arsenal at the top of the table. They lurked behind their title rivals for much of the campaign and only needed the slightest slip from Mikel Arteta’s men to sneak past them into first place.
They have become a different beast this season. Foden has come into his own, and Julián Álvarez showed his worth, particularly with De Bruyne absent through injury for the entire first half of the season.
De Bruyne, too, has been excellent in the second half of the season. Since his return in early January, the Belgian has registered 17 assists in all competitions – three more than any other Premier League player has managed in the whole of 2023-24. During a below-par team performance in a crunch game at Tottenham on Tuesday, De Bruyne stepped up with the assist for a Haaland tap-in to settle his team’s nerves and put City into a lead they never surrendered.

Part of City’s improvement this term has been the result of a more proactive defensive approach and playing higher up the pitch. They have become a better pressing team, recording more high turnovers – winning possession within 40m of the opposition’s goal line – in 2023-24 (417) than they had done in any other Premier League season on record (since 2010-11). They have also recorded their highest total of goals following a high turnover (13). Both numbers are also the highest of every team in the Premier League this season.

They are playing even higher up the pitch than before, with the average distance from their own goal that their attacks start (46.4m) being further than in any other season under Guardiola and by far the highest of all teams in the Premier League this term.
This has resulted in even more control of games than they previously enjoyed, with opponents pushed even further away from City’s goals for longer periods. The average speed of City’s attacks has dropped to 1.38 metres per second – the slowest City’s open-play sequences have moved towards the opposition goal on average in any season since Guardiola came in. It won’t come as a surprise that City have equalled their joint-lowest tally for counter-attacking goals in any Premier League season on record (since 2006-07), with just two in the whole of 2023-24.
One player who has played a key role in that is Rodri, who in the last couple of years has developed into one of the best midfielders in the world. He has gone from a ball-winning defensive midfielder to a Champions League-winning goal-scorer, and then this season has become an all-action midfielder who is everywhere. And one that – literally – never loses.
Rodri has gone well over a year and a quite incredible 73 games for club and country without losing a single game. That includes the whole of the 2023-24 campaign. Once again he scored a goal at a crucial moment on Sunday, the Spaniard stepping up to restore City’s two-goal lead against West Ham.
City’s only defeats of the season – three in the autumn after his red card against Nottingham Forest and one more at Aston Villa in December – came when Rodri was missing through suspension. When they have him, they do not lose. It took a penalty shootout for City and Rodri to be stopped by Real Madrid in the Champions League (and no, that doesn’t count as a defeat).

Being so reliant on Rodri might be raised as a reason against calling City a truly great team. A team is all about the collective rather than any one individual, one might argue.
But Rodri is so vital to this City team in part because he is almost always available. We didn’t find out whether Arsenal were any worse off without Declan Rice this season because he played every game, but that isn’t a reason to criticise them as a team.
Rodri’s consistent presence for the second half of the season was crucial to City hauling Arsenal in at the top of the table with a run of form through the spring that has become typical of Guardiola City sides.
Their manager has built a team that thrives under pressure, and when push came to shove in 2023-24, they were simply unstoppable. They ended this season with a 22-game unbeaten run in the league, winning 18 and drawing four of those games. And a late-season run of form like that is nothing new at the Etihad.
City’s record from March onwards over the last three seasons reads: played 36, won 30, drawn five, lost one, and that sole loss (plus one of the draws) came at the end of 2022-23 after the title had already been wrapped up and Guardiola was resting players ahead of the Champions League final.
This is a hell of a team and one that consistently performs when it matters most.
________________________________________
Accurately comparing teams across generations is an impossible task and one that will never produce definitive answers. After City won the treble last season, comparisons were instantly being made between their class of 2022-23 and United’s 1999 treble-winners, but nobody could truly say which team was greater.
But after City added to theirs by doing something no team in England has done before and won a fourth consecutive top-flight title, there is more reason than before to argue that this team is the greatest ever.
The ominous thing for everyone else is looking for a reason for this dynasty to end. After another league triumph, there’s no sign of them letting up.



